add doc for v1alpha1 security policy migration (#8856)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/security/migrate-alpha-policy/index.md

---
title: Migrate the deprecated alpha security policy
description: A tutorial to help customers to migrate the deprecated alpha security policy to the beta version.
keywords: [security,policy,migrate,alpha,beta,deprecate,peer,jwt,authorization]
weight: 20
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: n/a
---

Istio beta security policy (`PeerAuthentication`, `RequestAuthentication` and `AuthorizationPolicy`) has been released
since release 1.5 and the alpha security policy (`MeshPolicy`, `Policy`, `ClusterRbacConfig`, `ServiceRole` and `ServiceRoleBinding`)

> has been deprecated and no longer supported starting 1.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has been deprecated and no longer supported starting with release 1.6.
```

It is required to migrate the alpha security policy to the beta version before upgrading to Istio 1.6 and later.

> This blog is a tutorial to help customers who are still using the alpha security policy in the old version to migrate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog is a tutorial to help customers who are still using the alpha security policy in a pre 1.6 version to migrate to
```

the beta security policy and unblock the upgrade to Istio 1.6 and later.

## Overview

> The control plane should be upgraded first to bring in the support of `v1beta1` security policy. It is recommended first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The control plane should be upgraded first to bring in the support of `v1beta1` security policy. It is recommended to first
```

> The control plane should be upgraded first to bring in the support of `v1beta1` security policy. It is recommended to first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The control plane should be upgraded first to bring in support of the `v1beta1` security policy. It is recommended to first
```
```suggestion
The control plane should be upgraded first to bring in the support of `v1beta1` security policy. It is recommended to first
```

> upgrade to Istio 1.5 as a transitive version because it supports both `v1alpha1` and `v1beta1` security policy. You complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upgrade to Istio 1.5 as a transitive version because it supports both `v1alpha1` and `v1beta1` security policies. You complete
```
```suggestion
upgrade to Istio 1.5 as a transitive version because it supports both `v1alpha1` and `v1beta1` security policy. You complete
```

the security policy migration in Istio 1.5, remove the `v1alpha1` security policy and then continue the upgrade to later Istio versions.

Istio 1.5 is the only version that supports both `v1alpha1` and `v1beta1` security policy. For a given workload, the
`v1beta1` version will take precedence over the `v1alpha1` version.

Alternatively, if you want to do a skip-upgrade directly from Istio 1.4 to Istio 1.6 or later, you should use the
[canary upgrade](/docs/setup/upgrade/canary/) to install the new Istio version as a separate control plane, gradually

> migrate your workloads to the new control plane and complete the security policy migration at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
migrate your workloads to the new control plane completing the security policy migration at the same time.
```
```suggestion
migrate your workloads to the new control plane and complete the security policy migration at the same time.
```

> Note that skip-upgrade is not supported by Istio and there might be other issues in this process. Istio 1.6 does not support

Reviewer: @jacob-delgado @Monkeyanator Anything to add on this first sentence about skip upgrades?

Reviewer 2: Should we even mention the skip-level upgrade as an alternative here if it's not supported? I'm fine with it either way since we do mention that it's dangerous

Author: We know some customers are actively considering the skip-upgrade option, so just want to keep the information and warning here in case others might want to do it.

> Note that skip-upgrade is not supported by Istio and there might be other issues in this process. Istio 1.6 does not support

Reviewer: Is it worth putting a warning callout around this paragraph? When I get to the `In either case,` paragraph I look back and see 3 paragraphs so expects 3 different cases, so would like to combine the skip-level paragraphs into one. But then the warning is sort of lost. Having it as a callout doesn't leave an extra paragraph but still causes the reader to not miss the waring.

Author: Yeah, that makes sense. I changed to use warning around this and also updated the previous a little bit, it now should be more clear about the 2 cases.

the `v1alpha1` security policy, and if you do not migrate them to `v1beta1` version, you are essentially deleting all your

> `v1alpha1` security policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`v1alpha1` security policies.
```

> In either case, it is recommended migrating using namespace granularity: for each namespace, find all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In either case, it is recommended to migrate using namespace granularity: for each namespace, find all
```
```suggestion
In either case, it is recommended migrating using namespace granularity: for each namespace, find all
```

> In either case, it is recommended migrating at the granularity of namespace: for each namespace, find out all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In either case, it is recommended migrating using namespace granularity: for each namespace, find all
```

> `v1alpha1` policies that has effect on the workloads in the namespace and migrate all the `v1alpha1` policies at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`v1alpha1` policies that have an effect on the workloads in the namespace and migrate all the `v1alpha1` policies at the same time.
```

This allows a safer migration as you can apply the `v1beta1` policies one namespace at a time, make sure everything is working

> as expected and then move forward to the next namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as expected, and then move forward to the next namespace.
```

## Major Differences

Before starting the migration, read through the `v1beta1` [authentication](/docs/concepts/security/#authentication)
and [authorization](/docs/concepts/security/#authorization) documentation to understand the `v1beta1` policy.

> You should examine all of your existing `v1alpha1` security policy, find out what fields are used and which policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should examine all of your existing `v1alpha1` security policies, find out what fields are used and which policies
```

need migration, compare the findings with the major differences listed below and confirm there are no blocking issues

> (e.g. using some alpha feature that is no longer supported in beta):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g., using some alpha feature that is no longer supported in beta):
```

| Major Differences | `v1alpha1` | `v1beta1` |
|---------|------------------------|--------------------------------|
| API stability | not backward compatible | backward compatible |
| mTLS | `MeshPolicy` and `Policy` | `PeerAuthentication` |
| JWT | `MeshPolicy` and `Policy` | `RequestAuthentication` |
| Authorization | `ClusterRbacConfig`, `ServiceRole` and `ServiceRoleBinding` | `AuthorizationPolicy` |
| Policy target | service name based | workload selector based |
| Port number | service ports | workload ports |

Although `RequestAuthentication` in `v1beta1` security policy is similar to `v1alpha1` JWT policy, there is a notable
semantics change. The `v1alpha1` JWT policy needs to be migrated to two `v1beta1` resources: `RequestAuthentication` and `AuthorizationPolicy`.

> 

Reviewer: Should these two paragraphs be combined?

Author: updated.

> This will change the JWT deny message due to the use of `AuthorizationPolicy`. In alpha version, the HTTP code 401 is returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will change the JWT deny message due to the use of `AuthorizationPolicy`. In the alpha version, the HTTP code 401 is returned
```
```suggestion
This will change the JWT deny message due to the use of `AuthorizationPolicy`. In alpha version, the HTTP code 401 is returned
```

> with the body `Origin authentication failed`. In beta version, the HTTP code 403 is returned with the body `RBAC: access denied`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the body `Origin authentication failed`. In the beta version, the HTTP code 403 is returned with the body `RBAC: access denied`.
```
```suggestion
with the body `Origin authentication failed`. In beta version, the HTTP code 403 is returned with the body `RBAC: access denied`.
```

The `v1alpha1` JWT policy [`triggerRule` field](https://istio.io/v1.4/docs/reference/config/security/istio.authentication.v1alpha1/#Jwt-TriggerRule)
is replaced by the `AuthorizationPolicy` with the exception that the [`regex` field](https://istio.io/v1.4/docs/reference/config/security/istio.authentication.v1alpha1/#StringMatch)
is no longer supported.

## Migration flow

This section describes details of how to migrate the `v1alpha1` security policy workload.

> ### Step 1: Find out related policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Find related policies
```

> For each namespace, find out all `v1alpha1` security policies that has effect on workloads in the namespace. The result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each namespace, find out all `v1alpha1` security policies that have an effect on workloads in the namespace. The result
```
```suggestion
For each namespace, find out all `v1alpha1` security policies that has effect on workloads in the namespace. The result
```

> For each namespace, find out all `v1alpha1` security policies that have an effect on workloads in the namespace. The result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each namespace, find all `v1alpha1` security policies that have an effect on workloads in the namespace. The result
```

could include:

- a single `MeshPolicy` that applies to all services in the mesh;
- a single namespace level `Policy` that applies to all workloads in the namespace;
- multiple service level `Policy` that applies to the selected services in the namespace;
- a single `ClusterRbacConfig` that enables the RBAC on the whole namespace or some services in the namespace;
- multiple namespace level `ServiceRole` and `ServiceRoleBinding` that applies to all services in the namespace;
- multiple namespace level `ServiceRole` and `ServiceRoleBinding` that applies to the selected services in the namespace;

> ### Step 2: Convert service name to label selector

Reviewer 3: label selector -> workload selector

> The `v1alpha1` policy selects target using service name, you should refer to the corresponding service definition to decide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `v1alpha1` policy selects targets using service name, you should refer to the corresponding service definition to decide
```
```suggestion
The `v1alpha1` policy selects target using service name, you should refer to the corresponding service definition to decide
```

> The `v1alpha1` policy selects targets using service name, you should refer to the corresponding service definition to decide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `v1alpha1` policy selects targets using service name. You should refer to the corresponding service definition to decide
```

the workload selector that should be used in the `v1beta1` policy.

> A single `v1alpha1` policy may include multiple services, this means it will be migrated to multiple `v1beta1` policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single `v1alpha1` policy may include multiple services. It will need to be migrated to multiple `v1beta1` policies
```

because the `v1beta1` policy currently only supports at most one workload selector per policy.

> Also note the `v1alpha1` uses service port but the `v1beta1` uses the workload port, this means the port number might be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also note the `v1alpha1` policy uses service port but the `v1beta1` policy uses the workload port, this means the port number might be
```

> different in the migrated `v1beta1` policy.

Reviewer 3: How do we handle the service port vs workload port difference in the conversion tool?

Author: the tool will find and use the workload port from the service.

   `AuthorizationPolicy` without workload selector for the whole namespace. Fill out the policy based on the
   semantics of the corresponding `MeshPolicy` or `Policy` for the namespace;

1. If a workload is enabled with mTLS or JWT, create the `PeerAuthentication`, `RequestAuthentication` and
   `AuthorizationPolicy` with corresponding workload selector for the workload. Fill out the policy based on the
   semantics of the corresponding `MeshPolicy` or `Policy` for the workload;

1. For mTLS related configuration, use `STRICT` mode if the alpha policy is using `STRICT`, use `PERMISSIVE` in all other cases;

1. For JWT related configuration, refer [`End-user authentication` documentation](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#end-user-authentication)
   to learn how to migrate to the `RequestAuthentication` and `AuthorizationPolicy`;

### Step 4: Migrate RBAC policy

For each `v1alpha1` RBAC policy, migrate with the following rules:

1. If the whole namespace is enabled with RBAC, create an `AuthorizationPolicy` without workload selector for the whole
   namespace. Add an empty rule so that it will deny all requests to the namespace by default;

> 1. If a workload is enabled with RBAC, create an `AuthorizationPolicy` with corresponding workload selector for the workload,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If a workload is enabled with RBAC, create an `AuthorizationPolicy` with corresponding workload selector for the workload.
```
```suggestion
1. If a workload is enabled with RBAC, create an `AuthorizationPolicy` with corresponding workload selector for the workload,
```

   Add rules based on the semantics of the corresponding `ServiceRole` and `ServiceRoleBinding` for the workload;

### Step 5: Verify migrated policy

> 1. Double check the migrated `v1beta1` policy, make sure there are no policies with duplicate name, the namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Double check the migrated `v1beta1` policies, make sure there are no policies with duplicate name, the namespace
```
```suggestion
1. Double check the migrated `v1beta1` policy, make sure there are no policies with duplicate name, the namespace
```

> 1. Double check the migrated `v1beta1` policies, make sure there are no policies with duplicate name, the namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Double check the migrated `v1beta1` policies, make sure there are no policies with duplicate names, the namespace
```

   is specified correctly and all `v1alpha1` policies for the given namespace are migrated;

1. Dry-run the `v1beta1` policy with the command `kubectl apply --dry-run=server -f beta-policy.yaml` to make sure it
   is valid;

1. Apply the `v1beta1` policy to the given namespace and closely monitor the effect. Make sure to test both allow and
   deny scenarios if JWT or authorization are used;

> 1. Move to migrate the next namespace, only remove the `v1alpha1` policy after completed migration for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Move to migrate the next namespace, only remove the `v1alpha1` policy after completing migration for
```

   all namespaces successfully;

## Example

### `v1alpha1` policy

This section gives a full example showing the migration for namespace `foo`. Assume the namespace `foo` has the following

> `v1alpha1` policies that have effect to workloads in it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`v1alpha1` policies that affect the workloads in it:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
# A MeshPolicy that enables mTLS globally, including the whole foo namespace
apiVersion: "authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1"
kind: "MeshPolicy"
metadata:
  name: "default"
spec:
  peers:
  - mtls: {}
---
# A Policy that enables mTLS permissive mode and enables JWT for the httpbin service on port 8000
apiVersion: authentication.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  namespace: foo
spec:
  targets:
  - name: httpbin
    ports:
    - number: 8000
  peers:
  - mtls:
      mode: PERMISSIVE
  origins:
  - jwt:
      issuer: testing@example.com
      jwksUri: https://www.example.com/jwks.json
      triggerRules:
      - includedPaths:
        - prefix: /admin/
        excludedPaths:
        - exact: /admin/status
  principalBinding: USE_ORIGIN
---

> # A CluserRbacConfig that enables RBAC globally, including the foo namespace

Reviewer: Missing a `t` in CluserRbacConfig
